Add Curated Module v2 guide to /run-on-lido (#881)
lidofinance/docs: run-on-lido/curated-module/bond-and-key-management.md

---
sidebar_position: 6
---

# 🔐 Bond & Key Management

This page covers how to upload and manage your validator keys, and how bond works in CMv2. Bond is collateral you post to back your keys. The amount required depends on your Node Operator type and number of keys.

---

## Key management

### Uploading keys

![Upload keys](/img/cm-guide/bond-upload-keys.png)

> To upload keys, go to the keys tab in cm.lido.fi, and drag and drop the `deposit-data.json` file from your keys. The widget will tell you how much bond is required for the amount of keys submitted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To upload keys, go to the keys tab in [cm.lido.fi](https://cm.lido.fi), and drag and drop the `deposit-data.json` file from your keys. The widget will tell you how much bond is required for the number of keys submitted.
```

| **Pending activation** | Key has been deposited and is awaiting activation on the beacon chain | Make sure your validator node is online and ready to perform duties |
| **Active** | Key is active on the beacon chain | Make sure your validator node is online to perform its duties |
| **Exited** | Key has been exited | — |
| **Withdrawn** | Key has been exited and ETH has been returned to the protocol | — |
| **Unbonded** | Bond is insufficient for this key, which can be Active or otherwise | Top up bond or remove/exit the key |
| **Exit requested** | An exit has been requested by [VEBO](https://docs.lido.fi/contracts/validators-exit-bus-oracle/) but the validator has not yet exited | Exit the validator as soon as possible to avoid a Late exit penalty |
| **Duplicated** | Key has been uploaded twice either to the Lido protocol or Ethereum CL | Remove duplicate key |
| **Invalid** | Uploaded key has an invalid signature | Remove key and re-upload it with the valid signature |

### Exiting keys

![Exit keys](/img/cm-guide/bond-exit-keys.png)

Operators in the Curated Module can exit their keys through the following options:

> **Removing keys before getting deposits**

Reviewer: Make these h4? (#### instead of **)

| Professional Trusted Operator (PTO) | 11 ETH | 0.1 ETH next 17 keys, 0.7 ETH after |
| Professional Operator (PO) | 11 ETH | 1 ETH |
| Public Good Operator (PGO) | 11 ETH | 0.1 ETH next 17 keys, 0.7 ETH after |
| Decentralization Operator (DO) | 11 ETH | 0.1 ETH next 17 keys, 0.7 ETH after |
| Extra Effort Operator (EEO) | 11 ETH | 0.1 ETH next 17 keys, 0.7 ETH after |
| Intra-Operator DVT Cluster (IODC) | 11 ETH | 0.1 ETH next 17 keys, 0.7 ETH after |

:::info
These are Hoodi testnet confirmed values. Mainnet values will be confirmed before launch and may differ.
:::

---

### Locked bond

![Locked bond](/img/cm-guide/bond-locked.png)

When a [penalty](./penalties) is reported to your operator, the equivalent of the penalty plus a fee enters a **locked** state.

You can compensate the penalty from your excess bond. If needed, top up your bond first so there is enough excess to cover the penalty, then compensate it through the interface.

If no further action is taken by the Curated Module Committee, the Node Operator can do a transaction to unlock it after the lock period of 60 days ends.

You can also see previous penalties in the history toggle with penalties including:

> - Late Exit Penalty

Reviewer: Late exit penalty is not via lock. I suggest having a separate section for the penalties log if you wish to have it
